Chewing on the AWS Twitter Feed
Twitter streams tons of messages every minute. Have you ever wanted to work with the data and do your own analysis of the Twitter feed? A little while ago Assaf Mentzer put together a demonstration project to show off some AWS capabilities, 'Building a Near Real-Time Disovery Platform with AWS', that offers a great introduction to working with streaming data.
Since then there have been a few changes in some of the AWS services he used. This page updates Assaf's instructions and adds a few additional tips for anyone getting started with the project. The steps on this page are fairly complete, but they are definitely an extension of Assaf's work. I hope these notes others to succeed with the Twitter feed.
The notes will make more sense if you follow along with Assaf's page open in another browser tab. Without further ado, here they are:
Prerequisites
No real changes here. The only note is to consider creating a new Twitter account for this project instead of reusing your usual one (if you have one). This way with these data explorations won't interfere with your usual settings and preferences.
Create Amazon Elasticsearch Service cluster
Sign in to the Elastic Search Service Console.
If this is your first time choose 'Get Started', otherwise choose 'Create a New Domain'.

Create an Elasticsearch DomainName your domain, we will use "es-twitter-demo" here, then choose 'Next'.
After naming the domain for your elasticsearch service Assaf recommends accepting the defaults on the next page. The defaults are reasonable, but it is cheaper to use a smaller EC instance to host the elasticsearch domain. The t2.medium.elasticsearch instance type works well for simple experimentation.
Choose 'Allow Open Access' as the domain policy. NOTE: This is a poor security practice and the console will complain about it.

Set up an access policyChoose 'Confirm and Create'. It takes about 10 minutes for the domain to be set up.

Domain creation confirmation dialogWhen the endpoint is active, click on it.

Elasticsearch Service DashboardThe service console will display various details about the newly created service endpoint. Note this information down for later, especially the Eleasticsearch service endpoint and the Kibana URL.

Configuration detailsCreate an IAM role for Firehose
Create the two policy files that will be uploaded using the AWS command line client. NOTE: On my system, cutting and pasting these lines from the original article introduced various hidden artifacts in the files that caused the upload to fail. If that happens on your system, just retype them. The syntax Assaf gives in the original article is correct.
Edit the s3-rw-policy.json file to use your S3 bucket

Edit the .json fileUse the AWS CLI client to upload the files.
Check that the policy has been uploaded properly

Verify access policyCreate a Lambda function
This section deviates from the original quite a bit. The outcome is the same, but the Lambda function setup and configuration process appears to have been updated since the original article was published.
Download the deployment package and unzip to the s3-twitter-to-es-python folder.
Modify the s3-twitter-to-es-python/config.py file. Edit the file so that the value of es_host matches Elasticsearch Service endpoint for your domain.

Edit host valueZip the folder content on your local environment as my-s3-twitter-to-es-python.zip NOTE: It is important to zip the entire folder contents not just zip up the folder itself.
Sign in to the Lambda console.
Choose 'Create a Lambda function'. NOTE: Choose 'Get started now' if this is your first time using Lambda.
Choose 'Configure triggers' from the list of choices at top left of the screen

Configure lambda triggersClick inside the dotted lines and choose the S3 source from the drop down list.

Select a storageEnter your bucket name and be sure the 'Enable trigger' box is checked.

Name the S3 bucketOn the next screen update the variables as follows:

Name: 's3-twitter-to-es-python'
Runtime: 'Python2.7'
Code entry: 'Upload a .ZIP file' 
(Click the button to upload the .zip created a few steps ago.)
Handler: 'lambda_function.lambda_handler'
Role: 'Create new role from templates(s)'
Role name: lamdba_s3_exec_role'
Memory: 128
Timeout: 2 minute
Lambda function configurationAdditional configurationCreate the function
Verify the role was created properly

Confirm configurationVerify the S3 bucket has permissions set properly

Check S3 bucket permissionsFeed the producer with Twitter streaming data
That's a lot of configuration and backend set up so far, but we are nearly there. The next steps are where the fun begins. Assaf configured a fairly restrictive data feed. You can change his configuration to select tweets which you think are more interesting.
Using the suggested t2.micro instance for the node.js host works well for the demo. Be aware that the stock configuration file is limited to US data and it only sends a few of the available fields from the Twitter stream. If you really want to pull in lots of data you may want to upgrade your server instances. That said, when starting out it is probably best to stick with the standard configuration.
If you want to change the data streams later on, here are some tips on how to do it.
Add countries outside the US to the stream
This sends a LOT of data for the demo to process.
Go to the node.js host.
Change directory to twitter-streaming-firehose-nodejs.
Edit config.js to comment out the regional filter.
Restart the node server.

Edit config.jsAdd new fields to the stream
That was a great start, but you are probably anxious to gather other types of meta data. You can increase the amount of data collected in each Tweet by modifying the Lambda Function. Here's how:
Go to the s3-twitter-to-es-python directory.
Edit tweet_utils.py to add additional fields in the get_tweets() function.
Rob Johnson has compiled a list of available fields.

Adding data fieldsZip up the directory again
Go to your function in the Lambda Management console.
Upload the new .zip file. It will replace the old function.
Go to the monitoting tab.
Click on 'View logs in CloudWatch' to verify the new function works properly. These logs are very useful to debug any errors in the python script.

View console activityAdd new indices to Kibana
Kibana helps you to aggregate your data. When working with different data sets it may be useful to add another index or two to segregate your information streams. You can do it like this:
Go to the s3-twitter-to-es-python directory.
Edit twitter_to_es.py to update the index name.

Add an new indexZip up the directory again
Go to your function in the Lambda Management console.
Upload the new .zip file. You will see the new index listed on the 'Indices' tab for for ElasticSearch domain.

Discover and analyze data
The tweet data is transferred to the S3 bucket you configured every 5 minutes or when it reaches a particular size. Depending on how much data you decided to capture, you should start to see data files appearing in S3 very soon. Once the first data item appears in S3, the Lambda function should process it.
The first processing iteration should happen in about five minutes. If you don't see any output from the lambda function, first verify that data is being written to S3. Then check that the S3 bucket permissions are correct for reading. It is ok to open the bucket permissions to be world readable since the bucket only holds publicly available data anyway. NOTE: You should choose more restrictive access permissions for more sensitive data.
When ElasticSearch confirmed your domain above, a URL was created for Kibana. Don't be disappointed if the URL didn't link to anything interesting then. Kibana won't return anything until after the Lambda function has processed the first set of data. Once that happens you are free to explore!
Happy tweet prospecting!